README.md, before:

# Crowd Study
Starting in March 2015, the UPEI HCI Lab will be conducting a number of 
experiments related to crowd work. In order to track data gathered from 
these experiments, we have created CrowdStudy. This application for serving
files, and collecting results for each experiment.

## Getting Started
Before you can get started using the Crowd Study platform, you must make sure to sign up for
both Crowdflower and Amazon's Mechanical Turk.

### Crowdflower
* [Signup](http://make.crowdflower.com) to be a Crowdflower requester.
* Go to the [user page](https://make.crowdflower.com/account/user) and copy your API Key.
* `cp /path/to/crowdstudy/cf_api_key_dummy.js /path/to/crowdstudy/cf_api_key.js`
* Open `/path/to/crowdstudy/cf_api_key.js` and paste your API Key in the quotes.


### Amazon Mechanical Turk
The following instructions come from `/path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clt/GetStarted.html`:

* [Sign up](https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/registration/index.html) for an Amazon Web Services account.
* [Sign up](https://requester.mturk.com) to be an Amazon Mechanical Turk requester

#### Setting up the Command Line Tools (NOT IMPLEMENTED)
This sections describes how to set up the Mechanical Turk Command Line Tools. Currently, Crowd Study does not use
the mTurk Command Line Tools, but just in case it does in the future, here are some instructions.

* Configure the Command Line Tools to use your AWS identifier:
    * View the [Security Credentials](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#security_credential) page to find or
    generate your access and security keys. These must be for your root account, not for one of the IAM User accounts.
    * `cp /path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clit/bin/mturk.properties_copy /path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clit/bin/mturk.properties`
    * Open `mturk-clit/bin/mturk.properties`
    * On lines 11 and 12, insert your access and secret keys, respectively.
* Set the `MTURK_CMD_HOME` environment variable to `./mturk-clt`
    * `echo export MTURK_CMD_HOME="/path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clt" >> ~/.profile`
* Make sure you have the Java JRE installed:
    * The default JRE can be installed with `sudo apt-get install default-jre`, but any other version will do.
* Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to your Java Standard Edition Runtime Environment (JRE) installation location.
    * With default-jre, run `echo export JAVA_HOME="/usr/" >> ~/.profile`
* Test things out by getting your AWS account balance.
    * `cd /path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clt/bin/`
    * `sh getBalance.sh`
    * This should print something like `Your account balance: $0.00`
    * **Note:** This MUST be run from within `mturk-clt/bin` directory.
    
## Server & Framework

The server is written in Javascript using the Expressjs framework. It is
being run by io.js, a fork of Node.js which uses Chrome v8 engine and
supports ES6, the latest Javascript standard.

Run the following commands to install io.js on your machine.

    #! /bin/bash
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.24.0/install.sh | bash
    source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh
    
    # Install io.js
    nvm install iojs
    
    # Load nvm and iojs from profile
    echo source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh >> ~/.profile
    echo nvm use iojs >> ~/.profile
    source ~/.profile
    
## Database
Data is stored in a Mongo database, which is made accessible through `req.db`. By default, there are no models 
or any other kind of type checking, but feel free to add them as needed. 


### The Worker Collection
Information about workers from Crowdflower and Mechanical Turk will be stored in a 
MongoDB `workers` collection. Although there is currently no helper functions or 
validation for these documents, they should have the following structure:

    {
        id: 1341235,                // The Crowdflower or mTurk ID.
        platform: 'crowdflower',    // A string containing either "crowdflower" or "mturk"
        experiments: {              // Each sub-object here will have whatever format suits the experiment.
            ajax_interaction: {
                headers: { ... },
                img: ['a.jpg', 'c.jpg'],
            },
            example: {
                name: 'Billy Joel'
            },
            external_link: {
                dob: {
                    year: 1992,
                    month: 2,
                    day: 21
                }
            }
        }
    }

## View rendering
Pages are rendered server side using the EJS view engine.

Any client side JSX files located in an experiments `public/scripts` directory are compiled to 
Javascript when the server starts.

## Logging
A global `log` variable provides access to a bunyan logger. 

## Documentation
Two forms of documentation applications will used in this project: docco and JSDocs.

Run `docco *` at the command line to generate docco docs.

JSDocs is not yet supported.

## Experiments
Each experiment is represented by an Express app located in the 
`experiments` directory. These experiments are mounted on a URL
which corresponds to the experiment name. 

Three example experiments are provided. The first is a simple example that just shows how to make 
an experiment app, the second is an app which is meant to be interacted with using client-side javascript
built into the Crowdflower and mTurk jobs, and the third is meant to be accessed via an external link.

### Basic App Structure
Experiment sub-applications have the following structure:

    example/
        public/
            scripts/
                ExampleButton.jsx
                ExampleButton.js
                ExampleInput.jsx
                ExampleInput.js
        views/
            MyView.ejs
        app.js
        controllers.js
        routes.js
        

* app.js – This file exports the experiment as an application. It sets up the experiment specific views, static files, and routes.
* controller.js – Contains middleware and controller functions for handling requests.
* routes.js - Is a function which sets up the routes needed for the experiment.
* views/ – Contains EJS views. 
* public/ – Contains public files specific to this experiment.
    * scripts/ – `.jsx` files here are compiled to `.js` files in the same directory when the server starts. 

Check out example experiment's source code to see how it's being used. 

A couple notes on creating experiments:

1. You shouldn't have to change `app.js` for different experiments.
1. Make sure any scripts being loaded into views are `https` safe.

### Link Example
Some experiments will be carried out using an link on the job page. This link takes him to a page hosted by this platform
where he is asked to supply his Crowdflower or mTurk worker id, and complete a survey. After completing the survey, the 
worker is given code which he must paste into a textfield back on Crowdflower/mTurk. The worker is then given a bonus
if he has submitted the correct code.

This experiment is pretty simple: 3 views, 3 routes, 3 controllers, and a couple helper functions.

`GET /` calls the `get_survey` controller, which renders `survey.jsx` to show the worker the initial survey page.

`POST /` calls `post_survey` which validates the form. If it is not valid, then `survey.jsx` is re-rendered with the appropriate errors. If the form
is valid, then the worker's information is saved to Mongo and a code is generated and displayed by rendering `code_page.jsx`.

If an unexpected error occurs, `error_page.jsx` is rendered.

`POST /webhook` is accessed by Crowdflower for when send back the judgments gathered. The `webhook` controller handles this route.

#### Crowdflower Job Setup

Navigate to Crowdflower's [new job page](http://make.crowdflower.com/jobs/new).

Under **Survey Job** click **Get Started**.

Go to the CML Editor.

Set the Title and Instructions to what you want.

Use the following CML, but make sure to replace the link url:

    <h3>
      <a href="https://hcilab.csit.upei.ca:8998/external_link" 
         class="clicked validates-clicked" target="_blank">
           Follow this link to complete our survey!
      </a>
    </h3>
    <cml:text label="Survey Code" name="code" validates="required" 
              data-validates-regex-message="Please copy and paste the code here that can be found at the end of the Survey" 
              default="Enter code here..." instructions="Enter Survey code in this field after completing" />
              
              
#### Mechanical Turk Job Setup

Navigate to the mTurk [New Project](https://requester.mturk.com/create/projects/new) page.

Select the **Survey Link** template and press **Create Project**.
 
Enter the properties as you see fit.

Change the Survey Link URL on the **Design Layout** page to your URL.
 
Save the project and Publish a batch.

## Using CrowdStudy
To run the CrowdStudy server:

    grunt | bunyan -o short

Commit message:

README. Sockets file. Other things.

README.md, after:

# Crowd Study
Starting in March 2015, the UPEI HCI Lab will be conducting a number of 
experiments related to crowd work. In order to track data gathered from 
these experiments, we have created CrowdStudy. This application for serving
files, and collecting results for each experiment.

## Getting Started
Before you can get started using the Crowd Study platform, you must make sure to sign up for
both Crowdflower and Amazon's Mechanical Turk.

### Crowdflower
* [Signup](http://make.crowdflower.com) to be a Crowdflower requester.
* Go to the [user page](https://make.crowdflower.com/account/user) and copy your API Key.
* `cp /path/to/crowdstudy/cf_api_key_dummy.js /path/to/crowdstudy/cf_api_key.js`
* Open `/path/to/crowdstudy/cf_api_key.js` and paste your API Key in the quotes.


### Amazon Mechanical Turk
The following instructions come from `/path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clt/GetStarted.html`:

* [Sign up](https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/registration/index.html) for an Amazon Web Services account.
* [Sign up](https://requester.mturk.com) to be an Amazon Mechanical Turk requester

#### Setting up the Command Line Tools (NOT IMPLEMENTED)
This sections describes how to set up the Mechanical Turk Command Line Tools. Currently, Crowd Study does not use
the mTurk Command Line Tools, but just in case it does in the future, here are some instructions.

* Configure the Command Line Tools to use your AWS identifier:
    * View the [Security Credentials](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#security_credential) page to find or
    generate your access and security keys. These must be for your root account, not for one of the IAM User accounts.
    * `cp /path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clit/bin/mturk.properties_copy /path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clit/bin/mturk.properties`
    * Open `mturk-clit/bin/mturk.properties`
    * On lines 11 and 12, insert your access and secret keys, respectively.
* Set the `MTURK_CMD_HOME` environment variable to `./mturk-clt`
    * `echo export MTURK_CMD_HOME="/path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clt" >> ~/.profile`
* Make sure you have the Java JRE installed:
    * The default JRE can be installed with `sudo apt-get install default-jre`, but any other version will do.
* Set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to your Java Standard Edition Runtime Environment (JRE) installation location.
    * With default-jre, run `echo export JAVA_HOME="/usr/" >> ~/.profile`
* Test things out by getting your AWS account balance.
    * `cd /path/to/crowdstudy/mturk-clt/bin/`
    * `sh getBalance.sh`
    * This should print something like `Your account balance: $0.00`
    * **Note:** This MUST be run from within `mturk-clt/bin` directory.
    
## Server & Framework

The server is written in Javascript using the Expressjs framework. It is
being run by io.js, a fork of Node.js which uses Chrome v8 engine and
supports ES6, the latest Javascript standard.

Run the following commands to install io.js on your machine.

    #! /bin/bash
    curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.24.0/install.sh | bash
    source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh
    
    # Install io.js
    nvm install iojs
    
    # Load nvm and iojs from profile
    echo source ~/.nvm/nvm.sh >> ~/.profile
    echo nvm use iojs >> ~/.profile
    source ~/.profile
    
## Database
Data is stored in a Mongo database, which is made accessible through `req.db`. By default, there are no models 
or any other kind of type checking, but feel free to add them as needed. 

Note: req.db is not accessible form socket functions.


### The Worker Collection
Information about workers from Crowdflower and Mechanical Turk will be stored in a 
MongoDB `workers` collection. Although there is currently no helper functions or 
validation for these documents, they should have the following structure:

    {
        id: 1341235,                // The Crowdflower or mTurk ID.
        platform: 'crowdflower',    // A string containing either "crowdflower" or "mturk"
        experiments: {              // Each sub-object here will have whatever format suits the experiment.
            ajax_interaction: {
                headers: { ... },
                img: ['a.jpg', 'c.jpg'],
            },
            example: {
                name: 'Billy Joel'
            },
            external_link: {
                dob: {
                    year: 1992,
                    month: 2,
                    day: 21
                }
            }
        }
    }

## View rendering
Pages are rendered server side using the EJS view engine.

Any client side JSX files located in an experiments `public/scripts` directory are compiled to 
Javascript when the server starts.

## Logging
A global `log` variable provides access to a bunyan logger. 

## Documentation
Two forms of documentation applications will used in this project: docco and JSDocs.

Run `docco *` at the command line to generate docco docs.

JSDocs is not yet supported.

## Experiments
Each experiment is represented by an Express app located in the `experiments` directory. These 
experiments are mounted on a URL which corresponds to the experiment name. 

### Basic App Structure
Experiment sub-applications have the following structure:

    example/
        public/
            images/
                img_0.png
                img_1.png
            scripts/
                ExampleButton.jsx
                ExampleButton.js
                ExampleInput.jsx
                ExampleInput.js
        views/
            MyView.ejs
        app.js
        controllers.js
        routes.js
        sockets.js
        

* app.js – This file exports the experiment as an application. It sets up the experiment specific views, static files, and routes.
* controller.js – Contains middleware and controller functions for handling requests.
* routes.js - Is a function which sets up the routes needed for the experiment.
* sockets.js - (Optional) Exports a function accepting the `config` and `server` objects. This can be used to set up sockets.
* views/ – Contains EJS views. 
* public/ – Contains public files specific to this experiment.
    * scripts/ – `.jsx` files here are compiled to `.js` files in the same directory when the server starts. 

Check out example experiment's source code to see how it's being used. 

A couple notes on creating experiments:

1. You shouldn't have to change `app.js` for different experiments.
1. Make sure any scripts being loaded into views are `https` safe.

### Link Example
Some experiments will be carried out using an link on the job page. This link takes him to a page hosted by this platform
where he is asked to supply his Crowdflower or mTurk worker id, and complete a survey. After completing the survey, the 
worker is given code which he must paste into a textfield back on Crowdflower/mTurk. The worker is then given a bonus
if he has submitted the correct code.

This experiment is pretty simple: 3 views, 3 routes, 3 controllers, and a couple helper functions.

`GET /` calls the `get_survey` controller, which renders `survey.jsx` to show the worker the initial survey page.

`POST /` calls `post_survey` which validates the form. If it is not valid, then `survey.jsx` is re-rendered with the appropriate errors. If the form
is valid, then the worker's information is saved to Mongo and a code is generated and displayed by rendering `code_page.jsx`.

If an unexpected error occurs, `error_page.jsx` is rendered.

`POST /webhook` is accessed by Crowdflower for when send back the judgments gathered. The `webhook` controller handles this route.

#### Crowdflower Job Setup

Navigate to Crowdflower's [new job page](http://make.crowdflower.com/jobs/new).

Under **Survey Job** click **Get Started**.

Go to the CML Editor.

Set the Title and Instructions to what you want.

Use the following CML, but make sure to replace the link url:

    <h3>
      <a href="https://hcilab.csit.upei.ca:8998/external_link" 
         class="clicked validates-clicked" target="_blank">
           Follow this link to complete our survey!
      </a>
    </h3>
    <cml:text label="Survey Code" name="code" validates="required" 
              data-validates-regex-message="Please copy and paste the code here that can be found at the end of the Survey" 
              default="Enter code here..." instructions="Enter Survey code in this field after completing" />
              
              
#### Mechanical Turk Job Setup

Navigate to the mTurk [New Project](https://requester.mturk.com/create/projects/new) page.

Select the **Survey Link** template and press **Create Project**.
 
Enter the properties as you see fit.

Change the Survey Link URL on the **Design Layout** page to your URL.
 
Save the project and Publish a batch.

## Using CrowdStudy
To run the CrowdStudy server:

    grunt | bunyan -o short
